We can have multiple exception
at the exactly same time.
And in this video we are going to
learn exactly how to handle multiple
exceptions at the same time.
And for this we are going to write
a very interesting piece of code.
And this will help you to prepare
for the Python world as well,
because such code exists a lot
in Python and I also, to be
honest, enjoy this quite a lot.
So let's close all of this
and create a new one.
We'll call this one as 04
and this will be multiplexion.
Py, of course.
And let's go ahead and define a,
process order.
Process order.
So what do we do in this one?
We only serve masala chai.
And somebody needs to give me
an order like what T you want
and how much you want to be.
Like you want three cups, four cups.
So masala chai only.
You need to give me pass on a key
of masala only and then a number.
It can be 2, 3, but it
should be number.
It should not be tea W, O.
It should be a number.
Exactly.
So for this we expect
that you will provide me the item
and the quantity.
Now, here's a very interesting piece
of code that I'll write.
First of all, I'll wrap it up with
a Try catch, or try, except in
this case, again, as I said, try
catch is such a common word that
I've studied so much of it in
Java, in Swift, in TypeScript and
JavaScript that I call it as Try
catch.
But when I write it in Python it is
try, except always.
So please grant me that
much liberty in here.
Now, how we can do that?
We want to calculate first of all
price, because price and the cost
for it will calculate that.
So how we can grab the price of it.
Now, here's an interesting
piece of code.
Notice here, I'm putting up a key.
The key is going to be masala
and the value
of it is going to be 20.
Interesting.
And then we are going to go ahead
and simply, get the item of it.
Now, what is this code?
How is it even going on?
Just bear with me, I'll explain
this, although it's very easy.
And then I can go ahead
and simply take this price
and multiply it by quantity.
And then we can simply go ahead
and print, print the total.
Let's print the formatted string
which says total cost is,
and then go ahead and have the cost.
All right, Those who are wondering,
hey, how does this actually work?
Don't worry, I'll walk you through
with that part as well.
So let's Just say we
get a simple key error.
In this case, somebody has
mentioned a key error.
Then I can just print this like this.
Let's use a formatted string.
We don't need formatted string.
We can just go with that.
We can say, sorry, that
chai is not on menu.
All right, one exception.
Can we raise another exception?
You can actually except.
And this time we want
to have a simple type error
and we can again say print.
And then we can say quantity
must be in number, number.
There we go.
So what's going on?
How is it even working?
So the way how this code is going
to be used will actually make
it much more clear for you that
what we are actually doing.
Let's just say I go ahead
and process an order.
First time I go ahead and ask for,
let's just say I want a T of
ginger because I love ginger T
and I provide you a value of 2.
And the second time I go ahead
and ask you a value in this format
with of course the string.
But instead of the ginger
I go ahead and say masala.
Okay, what's going on?
Let me help you to understand this.
Now the moment for the first time
you simply say, process the order.
We simply pass on item
value as ginger.
This goes up here and we
have the key and value.
So for this dictionary we are
looking forward for an item.
So notice here, this is the item
we are looking up for.
So if you try to extract an item
from, from a dictionary based on
the key value that you are providing
here, so item will be eventually
replaced with this ginger.
So this will just be gone like this.
And obviously this is not masala.
So this will never actually execute.
And immediately the price
is not going to be found.
Nothing will go inside the price.
So you raise an exception
which is key error.
Hey, this key doesn't exist.
So that's why we have
raised this error.
Key error.
And then in the second part, and
by the way, this is pretty easy,
once you got the value of 20
here, then quantity, you get the
quantity of 2, you multiply
that, that's okay, that's no
problem.
That's a super easy code
to learn and figure out.
It's just a multiplication.
Now in the next case what
happens is this masala.
So you copy this masala
inside this item.
This item is gone
and the masala goes up there.
So this time you want
to extract a key of masala.
And yes, the only key in our
dictionary exists is masala.
So final value that you
get is going to be 20.
So price gets a value of 20 and cost.
The cost will try to get
the value quantity next.
And the quantity is 2.
So Python doesn't know how
to multiply 20 with 2,
which is literally 2 and it
will raise the type error.
That quantity must be in the number.
So this is a very, very interesting
piece of code that we have
written and I hope now you see
how generic we have written.
But it's a very smart
code that we have written.
Let's go ahead and print it out
to see what we have actually
done that will help you
to understand it better.
So Python 3 04.
There we go.
So notice here.
Oh my.
Bad.
So this one needs to be fixed.
Quantity must be in the number.
We'll fix that.
So this one is saying
total cost is 2 to 2.
Why that is because of a concept
known as operator overloading.
So this time you say masala,
this gets you 20 and when you
multiply string with a 20 you
actually go ahead and get this whole
thing up here just like that.
So we should probably
provide more of the caution here.
Because this time it was able to
multiply 20 with whatever the value
you are providing, which is 2.
Shouldn't be working this way.
But you get the idea that even
the smartest of the code that we are
writing can have this kind of error.
So in that case we have
to actually convert this into
integer first or a number.
This also should be converted
into number and then only
the cost should be calculated.
A further if else wouldn't
harm that if the cost is
actually in the number.
And that's how the real world
software is different from
tutorials that, yeah, we do a lot
of checking in that, but you got
this idea and you also learned a
concept about operator
overloading with these.
So many tools.
This was unintentional,
but it happened.
And that's the beauty of programming.
No matter how much you prepare,
no matter how much you actually
enjoy, the real fun is actually
the raw coding where things
happen and you explain them.
Why did it happen?
And what can be done to solve this.
That's the fun part.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in the next video.